Add page for decentralized social networks (#6020)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/decentralized-social-networks.md

### Instagram {#instagram}

In May 2022, [Instagram announced support for NFTs](https://about.instagram.com/blog/announcements/instagram-digital-collectibles) on Ethereum and Polygon. Users can post NFTs directly to Instagram by connecting their Ethereum wallet. 

## Use decentralized social networks {#use-decentralized-social-media}

- **[Status.im](https://status.im/)** - _Status is a secure messaging app that uses an open-source, peer-to-peer protocol, and end-to-end encryption to protect your messages from third parties._ 
- **[Mirror.xyz](https://mirror.xyz/)** - _Mirror is a decentralized, user-owned publishing platform built on Ethereum for users to crowdfund ideas, monetize content, and build high-value communities._ 
- **[Lens Protocol](https://lens.xyz/)** - _Lens Protocol is a composable and decentralized social graph helping creators take ownership of their content wherever they go in the digital garden of the decentralized internet._

> ## Further reading {#Further-reading}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further reading {#further-reading}
```

### Articles {#articles}

- [Social Networks Are the Next Big Decentralization Opportunity](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2021/01/22/social-networks-are-the-next-big-decentralization-opportunity/) — _Ben Goertzel_
- [Web3 holds the promise of decentralized, community-powered social networks](https://venturebeat.com/2022/02/26/web3-holds-the-promise-of-decentralized-community-powered-social-networks/) — _Sumit Ghosh_
- [An Overview of the Blockchain Social Media Landscape](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-social-media-decentralized-social-media) — _Gemini Cryptopedia_
- [How Blockchain Can Solve Social Media Privacy](https://www.investopedia.com/news/ethereum-blockchain-social-media-privacy-problem-linkedin-indorse/) — _Prableen Bajpai_
- [Social Media Networks Are Coming To The Blockchain](https://businesstechguides.co/what-are-decentralized-social-networks) — _Emmanuel Awosika_

> ### Videos {#videos}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Videos {#videos}

```

- [Decentralized Social Media Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdT2lpcGvcQ) — _Coinmarketcap_
- [DeSo Blockchain Wants to Decentralize Social Media](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SG2HUiVp0rE) — _Bloomberg Technology_
- [The Future of Decentralized Social Media w/ Balaji Srinivasan, Vitalik Buterin, Juan Benet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTxE9KV3YrE) — _ETHGlobal_

> ### Communities {#communities}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Communities {#communities}

```

- [Status Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/3Exux7Y)
- [Mirror Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/txuCHcE8wV)

> - [r/CryptoCurrency subbreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [r/CryptoCurrency subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/)
```

### Twitter {#twitter}

In January 2021, Twitter Blue [rolled out support for NFTs](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-blue-nft-profile-picture), allowing users to connect their wallets and display NFTs as profile pictures. At time of writing, the social media company has also [announced plans](https://www.theverge.com/2021/8/16/22627435/twitter-bluesky-lead-jay-graber-decentralized-social-web) to create a decentralized social network in the future.

### Instagram {#instagram}

In May 2022, [Instagram announced support for NFTs](https://about.instagram.com/blog/announcements/instagram-digital-collectibles) on Ethereum and Polygon. Users can post NFTs directly to Instagram by connecting their Ethereum wallet. 

## Use decentralized social networks {#use-decentralized-social-media}

> **[Status.im](https://status.im/)** - _Status is a secure messaging app that uses an open-source, peer-to-peer protocol, and end-to-end encryption to protect your messages from third parties._ 
> 
> **[Mirror.xyz](https://mirror.xyz/)** - _Mirror is a decentralized, user-owned publishing platform built on Ethereum for users to crowdfund ideas, monetize content, and build high-value communities._ 
> 
> **[Lens Protocol](https://lens.xyz/)** - _Lens Protocol is a composable and decentralized social graph helping creators take ownership of their content wherever they go in the digital garden of the decentralized internet._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Status.im](https://status.im/)** - _Status is a secure messaging app that uses an open-source, peer-to-peer protocol, and end-to-end encryption to protect your messages from third parties._ 
- **[Mirror.xyz](https://mirror.xyz/)** - _Mirror is a decentralized, user-owned publishing platform built on Ethereum for users to crowdfund ideas, monetize content, and build high-value communities._ 
- **[Lens Protocol](https://lens.xyz/)** - _Lens Protocol is a composable and decentralized social graph helping creators take ownership of their content wherever they go in the digital garden of the decentralized internet._
```

---
title: Decentralized social media networks
description: An overview of decentralized social networks on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":mega:"
sidebar: true

> sidebarDepth: 2
> summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  

Reviewer: Adding a placeholder image for now.

```suggestion
sidebarDepth: 2
image: ../../assets/ethereum-learn.png
summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  
```

summaryPoint2: Decentralized social media networks protect user privacy and enhance data security. 
summaryPoint3: Tokens and NFTs create new ways to monetize content. 
---
Social networks play a massive role in our daily communications and interactions. However, centralized control of these platforms has created many problems: data breaches, server outages, de-platforming, censorship, and privacy violations are some of the trade-offs social media often make. To combat these issues, developers are building social networks on Ethereum. Decentralized social networks can fix many of the problems of traditional social networking platforms and improve users' overall experience.

> ## What are decentralized social networks? {#what-are-decentralized-social-networks}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are decentralized social networks? {#what-are-decentralized-social-networks}

```

Decentralized social media website exist on a peer-to-peer network comprising thousands of nodes around the globe. Even if some nodes fail, the network will run uninterrupted, making applications resistant to failures and outages. 

Using decentralized storage systems like [the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)](https://ipfs.io/), social networks built on Ethereum can protect user information from exploitation and malicious use. No one will sell your personal information to advertisers, neither will hackers be able to steal your confidential details. 

Many blockchain-based social platforms have native tokens that power monetization in absence of advertising revenue. Users can buy these tokens to access certain features, complete in-app purchases, or tip their favorite content creators. 

> ## Benefits of decentralized social media platforms matter {#benefits-of-decentralized-social-media}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benefits of decentralized social media platforms {#benefits-of-decentralized-social-media}
```

3. As dapps running on the Ethereum network, which is sustained by a global, peer-to-peer network of nodes, decentralized social networks are less susceptible to server downtime and outages.
4. Decentralized social platforms offer an improved monetization framework for content creators via non-fungible tokens (NFTs) NFTs, in-app crypto payments, and more.
5. Decentralized social networks afford users a high level of privacy and anyonymity. For instance, an individual can sign in to an Ethereum-based social network using an ENS profile or wallet—without having to share personally identifiable information (PII), such as names, email addresses, etc. 
6. Decentralized social media projects rely on decentralized storage, not centralized databases, which are considerably better for safeguarding user data.

## Decentralized social networks on Ethereum {#Ethereum-social-media}

The Ethereum network has become the preferred tool for developers creating decentralized social media networks owing to the popularity of its tokens (ERC-20/ERC-721) and its massive user base. Here are some examples of Ethereum-based social networks:

> - Peepeth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Peepeth {#peepeth}
```

[Peepeth](https://peepeth.com/) is a microblogging platform similar to Twitter. It runs on the Ethereum blockchain and uses IPFS to store user data.

Users can send short messages called "Peeps", which cannot be deleted or modified. You can collect tips or tip anyone on the platform in ether (ETH) without leaving the app.

> - Mirror

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mirror {#mirror}
```

[Mirror](https://mirror.xyz/) is a decentralized and user-owned content distribution platform similar to Medium. Users can sign up by connecting their wallets or providing an Ethereum Name Service (ENS) username.

Posts published on Mirror are permanently stored on Arweave, a decentralized storage platform. Users can earn money by selling their articles as [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](https://ethereum.org/en/nft/).

> - MINDS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### MINDS {#minds}
```

[MINDS](https://www.minds.com/) is one of the most used decentralized social media platforms. It works like Facebook and has racked up millions of users already.

Users use the platform's native ERC-20 token $MIND to pay for items. Users can also earn $MIND tokens by publishing popular content, contributing to the ecosystem, and referring others to the platform.

## Ethereum and legacy social media platforms {#Ethereum-and-legacy-social-media-networks}

Decentralized social media platforms aren't the only ones trying to incorporate blockchain technology. Many traditional sites are also planning to integrate Ethereum into their infrastructure:

> **Reddit**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reddit {#reddit}
```

Reddit has [touted Community Points](https://cointelegraph.com/news/reddit-to-reportedly-tokenize-karma-points-and-onboard-500m-new-users), which are ERC-20 token that users can earn by posting quality content and contributing to the online community. You can redeem these tokens to gain exclusive privileges and perks. For this project, Reddit is working with Arbitrum, a Layer-2 rollup designed to scale Ethereum transactions.

> **Twitter**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Twitter {#twitter}
```

In January 2021, Twitter Blue [rolled out support for NFTs](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-blue-nft-profile-picture), allowing users to connect their wallets and display NFTs as profile pictures. The social media company has also [announced plans](https://www.theverge.com/2021/8/16/22627435/twitter-bluesky-lead-jay-graber-decentralized-social-web) to create a decentralized social network in future.

> **Instagram**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Instagram {#instagram}
```

> In May 2022, Instagram, a photo and video sharing social networking service with over a billion active monthly users, [announced support for NFTs](https://about.instagram.com/blog/announcements/instagram-digital-collectibles) on the Ethereum network and Polygon, a sidechain for Ethereum. Once they connect a wallet, users will be able to post and share NFTs on their Instagram profile. 

Reviewer: - Let's assume users know of Instagram and its popularity
- Slight structure reorg of the last sentence to put the subject first

```suggestion
In May 2022, [Instagram announced support for NFTs](https://about.instagram.com/blog/announcements/instagram-digital-collectibles) on Ethereum and Polygon. Users can post NFTs directly to Instagram by connecting their Ethereum wallet. 
```

## Use Ethereum-based social networks {#Use-Ethereum-social-media}

- [Status](https://status.im/)

> - [Mirror](https://mirror.xyz/)

Reviewer: Could we add a short description of what these are? They aren't very appealing for users to click right through as they are.

Author: Just added the descriptions.

---
title: Decentralized social media networks
description: An overview of decentralized social networks on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":mega:"
sidebar: true
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  
summaryPoint2: Decentralized social media networks protect user privacy and enhance data security. 
summaryPoint3: Tokens and NFTs create new ways to monetize content. 
---

> Today, social media platforms play a huge role in how we communicate and interact with each other. Social networking services have gone beyond mere fads and now underpin the digital economy. 
> 
> However, centralized control of these platforms has created many problems. Data breaches, server outages, deplatforming, censorship, privacy violations—these are some of the trade-offs social media users are forced to accept. 
> 
> To combat these issues, developers are building novel social media applications on decentralized networks like Ethereum. Decentralized social networks are poised to fix the the ills of legacy social platforms and improve the overall user experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Social networks play a massive role in our daily communications and interactions. However, centralized control of these platforms has created many problems: data breaches, server outages, de-platforming, censorship, and privacy violations are some of the trade-offs social media often make. To combat these issues, developers are building social networks on Ethereum. Decentralized social networks can fix many of the problems of traditional social networking platforms and improve users' overall experience.
```

---
title: Decentralized social media networks
description: An overview of decentralized social networks on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":mega:"
sidebar: true
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  

> summaryPoint2: Decentralized social media networks protect user privacy and enhance data security. 

Reviewer: _"enhance data security"_

What is the argument for this?

Author: I was thinking about high-profile data breaches that have affected social media companies in the past. If a decentralized social network integrates with something like Arweave or IPFS, then they can (theorectically) provide more safety for user data.

> summaryPoint3: Ethereum's ERC-20 tokens and NFTs are creating new avenues for content monetization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summaryPoint3: Tokens and NFTs create new ways to monetize content. 
```

Many decentralized social networks exist as alternatives to established social media services, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Medium. But blockchain-powered social networks have a number of features that put them ahead of traditional social platforms. 

## Why do decentralized social media platforms matter? {#decentralized-social-media-benefits}

To understand the benefits of decentralized social media networks, it's important to compare them against traditional social networks:

| Decentralized social media                                                                                                      | Traditional social media                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Information is stored on the blockchain.                                                                                | Information is stored in servers and data centers.                                              |

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Author: What I had in mind here was to compare the underlying infrastructure and how it affects operations. Specifically, I was thinking of the Facebook/Instagram/WhatsApp outage that happened last year. 

Of course, these outages don't happen very often, but the possibility is higher, since they have less distributed servers. It'll take something like the world's Internet going down or some black swan event to crash Ethereum, so by extension, platforms built on it can benefit from fault-tolerance. 

Thought I'll share my thought process around the point.

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Author: Sure, they'll definitely have a global distribution of servers. But I think the main difference here is that a blockchain like Ethereum likely has even more servers (i.e., nodes) sustaining the network. Plus, people are _incentivized_ to run these mini-servers--so you can at least bet that some nodes will always be online.

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Reviewer: > But I think the main difference here is that a blockchain like Ethereum likely has even more servers (i.e., nodes) sustaining the network.

But we're not going to be storing the majority of data on Ethereum. [Livepeer is a good example of this](https://livepeer.org/). I'd bet Livepeer nodes are definitely fewer in number than YouTube servers. Not strongly opposed to keeping it, but I do think the point itself ignores the reality of the current situation.

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Reviewer: Your reasoning makes sense to me but can we drop the hyperbole 😬?

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Author: Yes, that makes sense. Like I said in another comment, I'll simply focus on highlighting the pros (w/o hyperbole) of decentralized social media without directly pitting them against traditional SM platforms.

> | Global distribution of nodes reduces the possibility of outages.                                                        | Highly susceptible to network failure and service downtimes.                                    |

Author: Alright, that's a fair point. Would it be okay to replace the comparison with a line like "As dapps running on Ethereum network, which is sustained by a global, peer-to-peer network of nodes, decentralized social networks are less susceptible to downtime and outages."?

I'm taking a cue from the benefits of dapps listed on the Ethereum.org site: 

_"Once the dapp is live on Ethereum, it will only go down if Ethereum itself goes down. Networks of Ethereum's size are notoriously difficult to attack."_

> | Users can enjoy privacy in communication.                                                                               | Users are forced to exchange privacy for free access.                                          |

Author: I was thinking along the lines of decentralized identity here. You properly have to share personally identifiable information (PII) like names, email addresses, residential addresses, etc., if you need to use a regular social media app. Since dApps allow people to use wallets as sign-in methods, they likely have higher privacy standards. 

And yeah, I know E2E is gaining ground, but if the code is never open-source, there's really no way people know if their messages are truly private. I mean, LinkedIn pops up a "Set up meeting" notification when "meeting" is mentioned in my messages. Which sort of gives the notion that messages are still being read (even if it's AI).

> | Users can enjoy privacy in communication.                                                                               | Users are forced to exchange privacy for free access.                                          |

Reviewer: > Perhaps we can say "users can enjoy privacy of information vs users exchange privacy for free access" instead?

I think the current phrasing is ok (maybe a little combative?). Perhaps we could soften it a little? e.g. 'Users often have to exchange privacy for free access'

My main problem was it appears to be comparing apples and oranges on the pros vs cons.

> | Users can enjoy privacy in communication.                                                                               | Users are forced to exchange privacy for free access.                                          |

Author: So, are we sticking the benefits listing style for this page?

| Well-designed monetization framework comprising NFTs, in-app crypto payments, and more.                                 | Poor monetization models.                                            
| Blockchain security protects users from malicious attacks and safeguards data.                                          | Centralization increases the risk of data breaches and identity theft.                          |
| Platforms are censorship-resistant and open to everyone.                                                                | Individual access is controlled by centralized entities; platforms can be shut down. 

> | Source code and algorithms are fully available for inspection. Users can vote on platform changes in cases.             | Opaque implementation of algorithms. 

Reviewer: This either needs to be removed or explained elsewhere. Open to how you think it could fit in but it might be getting pretty in the weeds trying to explain governance processes here.

```suggestion
| Source code and algorithms are fully available for inspection.           | Opaque implementation of algorithms. 
```

Author: Definitely agree that we can take this one out.

> ### How do decentralized social networks work? {#decentralized-social-networks-overview}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do decentralized social networks work? {#decentralized-social-networks-overview}

```

> Decentralized social networks are a class of [decentralized applications (dApps)](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/dapps/)—applications powered by [smart contracts](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) deployed on the blockchain. The contract code serves as the backend for these apps and defines their business logic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized social networks are a class of [decentralized applications (dApps)](/dapps/)—applications powered by [smart contracts](/smart-contracts/) deployed on the blockchain. The contract code serves as the backend for these apps and defines their business logic. 
```

Traditional social media platforms rely on databases to store user information, program code, and other forms of data. But this creates single points-of-failure and introduces significant risk. For instance, Facebook's servers infamously [went offline for hours](https://www.npr.org/2021/10/05/1043211171/facebook-instagram-whatsapp-outage-business-impact) last year, cutting off users from the platform. 

Decentralized social media website exist on a peer-to-peer network comprising thousands of nodes around the globe. Even if some nodes fail, the network will run uninterrupted, making applications resistant to failures and outages. 

> Using decentralized storage systems like the [InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)](https://ipfs.io/), Ethereum-based social networks protect user information from exploitation and malicious use. No one will sell your personal information to advertisers, neither will hackers be able to steal your confidential details. 

Author: Great point. Thanks.

Many blockchain-based social platforms have native tokens that power monetization in absence of advertising revenue. Users can buy these tokens to access certain features, complete in-app purchases, or tip their favorite content creators. 

## Decentralized social networks on Ethereum {#Ethereum-social-media}

The Ethereum network has become the preferred tool for developers creating decentralized social media networks owing to the popularity of its tokens (ERC-20/ERC-721) and its massive user base. Here are some examples of Ethereum-based social networks:

- Peepeth

[Peepeth](https://peepeth.com/) is a blockchain-based microblogging site similar to Twitter. The dApp runs on the Ethereum blockchain and uses the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to store user data.

Users can send short messages called "Peeps", which cannot be deleted or modified. You can collect tips or tip anyone on the platform in ether (ETH) without leaving the app.

- Mirror

> [Mirror](https://mirror.xyz/) is a decentralized and user-owned content distribution platform similar to Medium. Users can sign up by connecting their wallets or providing an Ethereum Name Service (ENS) username.

Reviewer: Would you consider Mirror to be a social media?

Author: "Social platform" would be a good way to describe it. I know the term's a bit loose, but I wanted to include a social platform people were familiar with. I think Mirror's a great example if we want to highlight how Ethereum helps user-owned social communities thrive. 

And IMO, Mirror has more going for it as a social platform than, say, Medium. Asides from Twitter or Discord, Mirror is likely the most popular place for Web3-native brands to connect to communities.

Reviewer: Cool 😎 I'm just not very down with the kids in terms of what is/is not considered social media. Agree that Mirror is great to highlight either way.

Posts published on Mirror are permanently stored on Arweave, a decentralized storage platform. Users can earn money by selling their articles as [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](https://ethereum.org/en/nft/).

- MINDS

> [MINDS](https://www.minds.com/) is considered one of the more popular blockchain social media platforms out there. It works like Facebook, and has racked up millions of users already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MINDS](https://www.minds.com/) is one of the most used decentralized social media platforms. It works like Facebook and has racked up millions of users already.
```

Reviewer: Can you elaborate on 'It works like Facebook'? Not sure what this means.

> Users use the platform's native ERC-20 token $MIND to pay for items. You can also earn $MIND tokens by publishing popular content, contributing to the ecosystem, and accepting advertising offers.

Reviewer: _"Users use the platform's native ERC-20 token $MIND to pay for items"_

What items?

Reviewer: "_You can also earn $MIND tokens by publishing popular content, contributing to the ecosystem, and accepting advertising offers._"

We're switching the subject of the paragraph between sentences. e.g.

- _Users can_

- _You can_

Reviewer: "accepting advertising offers."

This might be worth fleshing out.

Author: > _"Users use the platform's native ERC-20 token $MIND to pay for items"_
> 
> What items?

Meant that users can use the MIND token to pay for extra features (like hiding ads, accessing exclusive content, or earning badges). They can also use it to tip/reward others in the community.

Author: > "accepting advertising offers."
> 
> This might be worth fleshing out.

It looks like they disabled the peer-to-peer Boost system (I just noticed). Essentially, Boost is a way of getting more impressions on content (like paid ads on Twitter). You could pay someone who has a group to "boost" content in their channel, but I think the feature is controlled by the network itself now. I'll take it out and add another way users can earn.

Author: > "_You can also earn $MIND tokens by publishing popular content, contributing to the ecosystem, and accepting advertising offers._"
> 
> We're switching the subject of the paragraph between sentences. e.g.
> 
> * _Users can_
> * _You can_

Thanks for pointing this out. I'll edit to reflect the change.

## Ethereum and legacy social media platforms {#Ethereum-and-legacy-social-media-networks}

> Decentralized social media platforms aren't the only ones trying to incorporate blockchain technology. Traditional sites are warming up to integrating Ethereum into their infrastructure.

Reviewer: A small note on writing style: we translate ethereum.org content in over 40 languages, so we try to avoid metaphors like this (i.e. 'warming up') as they don't have the same meaning in different cultures.

```suggestion
Decentralized social media platforms aren't the only ones trying to incorporate blockchain technology; traditional social media are beginning to integrate similar features into their platform.
```

Author: Got it! Thanks.

> For instance, Reddit has [touted Community Points](https://cointelegraph.com/news/reddit-to-reportedly-tokenize-karma-points-and-onboard-500m-new-users), which are ERC-20 token that users can earn by posting quality content and contributing to the online community. You can redeem these tokens to gain exclusive privileges and perks.

Reviewer: Should we mention they are working directly with Arbitrum here?

Author: Yeah, we could do that, if it's necessary (something like "Reddit is working with Arbitrum, a Layer-2 scaling platform for Ethereum"). I felt mentioning the relationship with Ethereum (i.e., using ERC-20 tokens) was enough.

> Early this year, Twitter Blue [rolled out support for NFTs](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-blue-nft-profile-picture), allowing users to connect their wallets and display NFTs as profile pictures. The social media company has also [announced plans](https://www.theverge.com/2021/8/16/22627435/twitter-bluesky-lead-jay-graber-decentralized-social-web) to create a decentralized social network in future.

Reviewer: We should avoid putting relative date references here as the content is evergreen.

```suggestion
In January 2021, Twitter Blue [rolled out support for NFTs](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-blue-nft-profile-picture), allowing users to connect their wallets and display NFTs as profile pictures. The social media company has also [announced plans](https://www.theverge.com/2021/8/16/22627435/twitter-bluesky-lead-jay-graber-decentralized-social-web) to create a decentralized social network in future.
```

> 

Reviewer: Instagram just announced Polygon NFTs :)

Author: Awesome! You want me to include it in the content?

Reviewer: If you think it's worthwhile 😀 but it seems like pretty big news that the biggest distributor of jpegs is getting into NFTs 😅

Author: Definitely! I'll add it to the page.

## Use Ethereum-based social networks {#Use-Ethereum-social-media}

> - [Indorse](https://indorse.io/)

Reviewer: What is this? A protocol? Their website isn't very clear. Either way, we should focus on dapps as that as what we're describing above—clicking on this will only confuse readers.

```suggestion
```

Author: I agree on this point. It was initially marketed as some sort of "blockchain-based LinkedIn" where jobseekers can meet companies, but I think they've shifted focus. Now, the business model is offering decentralized code reviews.

> - [Akasha](https://akasha.world/)

Reviewer: Is this product dead? Looks like Akasha has formed a Foundation but no updates on this project/how to actually use it. As above, if it isn't something users can actually interact with then let's remove it
```suggestion
```

> - [Livepeer](https://livepeer.org/)

Reviewer: This isn't social media IMO

Author: Maybe we can stick to the examples mentioned in the article, then? (Peepeth, Mirror, etc.)

---
title: Decentralized social media networks
description: An overview of decentralized social networks on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":mega:"
sidebar: true
sidebarDepth: 2
image: ../../assets/ethereum-learn.png
summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  
summaryPoint2: Decentralized social media networks protect user privacy and enhance data security. 
summaryPoint3: Tokens and NFTs create new ways to monetize content. 

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

```

Many blockchain-based social platforms have native tokens that power monetization in absence of advertising revenue. Users can buy these tokens to access certain features, complete in-app purchases, or tip their favorite content creators. 

## Benefits of decentralized social media platforms {#benefits-of-decentralized-social-media}

1. Decentralized social media platforms are censorship-resistant and open to everyone. This means users cannot be banned, deplatformed, or restricted arbitrarily. 
2. Decentralized social networks are built on open-source ideals and make source code for applications available for public inspection. By eliminating the implementation of opaque algorithms common in traditional social media, blockchain-based social networks can align the interests of users and platform creators. 
3. As dapps running on the Ethereum network, which is sustained by a global, peer-to-peer network of nodes, decentralized social networks are less susceptible to server downtime and outages.

> 4. Decentralized social platforms offer an improved monetization framework for content creators via non-fungible tokens (NFTs) NFTs, in-app crypto payments, and more.

Author: Added this point to the section.

## Use Ethereum-based social networks {#Use-Ethereum-social-media}

**Status** - _Status is a secure messaging app that uses an open-source, peer-to-peer protocol, and end-to-end encryption to protect your messages from third parties._ 
- [Website](https://status.im/)

**Mirror** - _Mirror is a decentralized, user-owned publishing platform built on Ethereum that allows users to crowdfund ideas, monetize content, and build high-value communities. 
- [Website](https://mirror.xyz/)

## Further reading {#Further-reading}

- [Social Networks Are the Next Big Decentralization Opportunity](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2021/01/22/social-networks-are-the-next-big-decentralization-opportunity/) by Ben Goertzel
- [Web3 holds the promise of decentralized, community-powered social networks](https://venturebeat.com/2022/02/26/web3-holds-the-promise-of-decentralized-community-powered-social-networks/) by Sumit Ghosh
- [An Overview of the Blockchain Social Media Landscape](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-social-media-decentralized-social-media) by Gemini Cryptopedia

> - [How Blockchain Can Solve Social Media Privacy](https://www.investopedia.com/news/ethereum-blockchain-social-media-privacy-problem-linkedin-indorse/) by Prableen Bajpai

Reviewer 2: Similar to DID page, if we're going to use the `use-case` template, we could consider adding a bit more here in the same format as the other use case pages. Similar to my comment on that PR, don't think it needs to be a blocker.
